1. Far Niente, Napa Valley, Cabernet Sauvignon, 2022 $250 (Premium) 

This is a big, young Cabernet. It’s bursting with berry aromas as well as baking spice. On the palate there’s  juicy blackberry, and also ample secondary and tertiary notes including black tea and toasted oak. The juice for this bottle is sourced from all over Napa. It gets a 15 day maceration, which is about standard for cab. It is aged 17 months in mostly new french oak barriques. Winemaker Nicole Marchesi produces many bottles to put in the cellar and age for decades. But this bottle is made to drink tonight. I would do it with our strip steak and roasted mushrooms. Or our lamb chops and haricoverts.


Varietal: Cabernet Sauvignon (100%)
Ageing: 17 months in French oak (65% new, 35% once-used
Skin Contact: 15 days



2. Far Niente Cabernet Sauvignon “Cave Collection, Estate” Oakville 2011 $450 (Premium)

This has got real maturity now. Far Niente has been aging Cab in the caves they built out from the early 1980’s, and this is 100% from Stelling Vineyard, Oakville's most sought after vineyard. That maturity will allow the secondary and tertiary notes to shine through. Notes like black tea. This is a complex, beautiful drink.

Producer: Far Niente Winery
Region: Oakville, Napa Valley, California
Vintage: 2011
Designation: Cave Collection, Estate (indicates library release/cellar-aged)


3. Occhipinti SP68 2023 $90 (Bargain)

This is a stunning wine, and a work of art that you can drink. For the last 400 years Cerasuolo di Vitorria has been a blend of 70% Nero d’avola and 30% frappato. Then Arianna Occhipinti comes along and flips it with 70% frappato and 30% nero d’avola. That is such a post-modern move. To invert the ratio at the heart of the cuvee, its reminiscent of Igor Stravinsky's copious use of retrograde. Also, using broad brushstrokes so even the casual consumer understands exactly what the artist / winemaker is going for -- that is very reminiscent of Italian futurism.

Nose: Crushed roses and violets
Palate: Smoky, red cherry and rose 
Vineyard: Vittoria, biodynamic farming Maceration: 2 weeks, native yeast fermentation: native yeast
aging: 6 months in large concrete tanks, unfiltered

4. Bisson Abissi Riserva Marina 2019 $95 (bargain)

This is a ground breaking bottle. It is aged 200 feet under the Ligurian Sea. Off the coast of Cinque Terre, the cliffsides caves provide total darkness, cold, and a gentle rocking of the waves. Other wineries are now exploring underwater methods,  but Bisson winery was the first.

‐Type: Sparkling wine (Spumante)
Method: Metodo Classico (traditional method)
-Region: Golfo del Tigullio - Portofino, Liguria, Italy
-Grapes: Bianchetta Genovese, Vermentino, Cimixià
-Aging: Aged in a unique underwater cellar (60m deep) for 18 months, with natural remuage from currents
-Style: Fresh, youthful, elegant, 
-nose: citrus, apple, honey, and minerality
-palate: citrus, apple, honey, and minerality
-Food Pairing: Shellfish, crab, lobster, and other seafood 

5. Gravner Ribolla Gialla 2016 $225 (Premium)

Jasco Gravner is one of the first and most important orange wine makers. Orange wine is all about the maceration.  Gravner calls it the time with the mother grapes. For example, this year the biggest most powerful red wine will macerate for 6 or 7 weeks. Gravner will macerate ribolla gialla for 9 months. It gives the wine its distinct orange color, its rich silky texture, and its big bold flavors.

-Country: Italy
-Region: Friuli-Venezia Giulia
-Producer: Gravner
-Grape Variety: Ribolla Gialla
-Production Methods: Biodynamic

6. Cedric Bouchard Roses de Jeanne 'VV-Cote de Val Vilaine' Blanc de Noirs 2022 $400 (Premium)

Cedric Bouchard is the rockstar of Cotes de Bar, aka the Aube. For generations the Aube's rolling hills were considered only good enough to produce grapes for mixing. What Bouchard does is eliminate mixing all together.  He produces single vineyard, single varietal, zero dosage champagne. It's a kind of fanatical approach to making champagne and that's what it took to convince people that these southern plots were equal to the legendary towns of the north.  This has an effect on the French wine world as a whole because the Aube runs south right into the northern most vineyards of chablis. And it runs north into the vineyards of cotes sezanne. The Aube connects eastern France so that you could start in Reims and bicycle south to the Mediterranean Sea without ever leaving fine wine vineyards.

Producer: Cédric Bouchard (Roses de Jeanne)
Grape: 100% Pinot Noir
Style: Blanc de Noirs (white wine from black grapes)
Vineyard: Côte de Val Vilaine (a specific single vineyard)
Farming: Organic and biodynamic
Dosage: Typically zero (no added sugar)
Tasting Notes: Rich red fruits (strawberry, cherry), spice, potpourri, violets, energetic bubbles, crisp acidity, and a savory finish.
Food Pairing: Shellfish, crab, and lobster. 

7. 1955 Chateau Margaux  $5000 (Legendary)
The most renowned vintage of this era for Chateau Margaux is 1959, and it is certainly still more structured than the ‘55 these decades later. The ‘55 is so light. That is also part of its strength as a wine. At that weight the drinker can experience all of the bursting fruit, the cranberries’ acidity, of this wine. I would pair it with something epic but not steak. Maybe whole roasted pig?

Style: Red, savory, classic Bordeaux blend (Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Petit Verdot, Cabernet Franc). 
Appearance: Dark ruby/purple with slight lightening at the edge. 
Aroma: Violets, sweet cassis, spice, herbs, tobacco leaf, cedar. 
Palate: Round, opulent, velvety, with sweet, jammy fruit that has started to fade, leaving secondary notes. 
Overall: Harmonious and elegant, but some critics note it lacks the density of a top-tier vintage, though it's considered a success and perfect to enjoy now. 

8. Domaine Anne et Herve Sigaut Chambolle-Musigny 2020 $195 ( Hidden gem)

Anne and Herve Sigaut were New York City sommeliers in the 1980s. They moved to Chambolle-Musigny in 1990 to take over the Sigaut family winery, but I'm fascinated by their early career-- the New York full of scofflawery in Times Square; three brand new restaurant scene in Union Square; somming it up at the birth of the urban farmers market. I definitely feel a kinship to these winemakers because of their somm experience. 

Producer: Domaine Anne et Hervé Sigaut (formerly Domaine Maurice Sigaut) 
Region: Chambolle-Musigny, Côte de Nuits, Burgundy, France 
Grape: Pinot Noir 
Style: Red, savory, classic, elegant, and aromatic 
Tasting Notes: Red berries, violet, spice, dry fruits, with a mineral-driven, velvety texture and a spicy finish 
Aging: French barrels, typically with a low percentage of new oak (e.g., 15-20%) 
Farming: Organic, with a focus on natural methods like green harvesting and indigenous yeast fermentation.
Process: Soft de-stemming, gravity vatting, and bottling when aromatics are at their peak. 

9. Virgine de Vallindraud, St. Emilion, 2018, $165 (Hidden gem)

This wine is already in its prime. Super medium bodied and earthy; tobacco leafy; tilled soil; black cherry. It goes with so many dishes-- fowl, steak, pork.

Type: Red Bordeaux blend (Merlot dominant) and a dry white Bordeaux blend. 
Appellation: Saint-Émilion Grand Cru, France. 
Red Blend: Typically Merlot, Cabernet Franc, and Cabernet Sauvignon. 
Flavor Profile (Red): Black fruits (blackberry, plum, cherry), chocolate, spice, licorice, and tobacco, with a rich, velvety texture. 
Aging: Often aged in 100% new oak barrels for up to 20 months, contributing to its structure and complexity. 
Château Valandraud is a First Classified Growth (Premier Grand Cru Classé) in Saint-Émilion. “Virgine” is their second label made from young vines.

10. Alter Ego, 2020, Margaux, $250 (Premium)

This is Chateau Palmer's second label. I love it. It has classic Margaux notes like pipe tobacco, but also bright fruit. Cht Palmer's 1st label is meant to put in your cellar and age for a hundred years. This bottle is made to drink tonight.

50% Cabernet Sauvignon
46% Merlot
Profile: It is a medium-to-full-bodied wine known for its seamless, fleshy, and vibrant texture. It balances the ripe warmth of the 2020 growing season with striking freshness and linear precision.
Aromas: The nose is highly aromatic, bursting with fragrances of violets, rose petals, sweet dark berries, baking chocolate, and a touch of mint or cedar.
Palate: Expect deep, juicy flavors of blackcurrant, black cherry, and blueberry balanced by a chalky, fine-grained tannin structure and an undercurrent of crushed stones. 4% Petit Verdot

11. E. Guigol Brune et Blonde 2018 $195 (Hidden gem)

This wine demonstrates the oftentimes incredible consequences of blending wines. In this case the blend is made from 2 hills full of syrah grapes. On one hill, Cote Blonde, the syrah is at its most elegant. On the other hill, Cote Brune, the syrah is at its most powerful. Together they are more than a sum of parts. This is a near perfect red wine.

Region: Côte Rôtie, Northern Rhône Valley, France
Grapes: Syrah (Shiraz) with a small amount of Viognier
Style: Full-bodied, bold, structured, elegant
Tasting Notes: Dark fruit (blackberry, plum, blackcurrant), violet, smoked meat, pepper, vanilla, licorice, and spice
Texture: Silky, with fine-grained tannins
Aging: Aged in oak barrels (up to 36 months) 

12. Gerard Boulay “Monts Damnes” Sancerre 2023 $175 (Hidden Gem)

This is my favorite sancerre. It gets its name from the hill it grows on, Monts Damnes, the mountain of the damned. The sauvignon blanc grapes love the ferocious sun that beats down on that hill.

Grape Variety: 100% Sauvignon Blanc.
Vineyard Terroir: Sourced from 40- to 45-year-old old vines grown on the incredibly steep, south-facing slopes of the Monts Damnés.
Soil Profile: Terre blanche, a chalky Kimmeridgian clay and marl rich in marine fossils, similar to the soils of Chablis.
Winemaking: Fermented with native yeasts in older neutral oak barrels, aged on its lees, and bottled unfiltered. 

13. Beaucastel Chateauneuf du Pape Blanc 2021 $225 (premium)

This is what I want to drink tonight. It's so good. It is a millionaire of ripe fruit and delicate flowers. It's velvet and silky in structure. It's got a long finish. I'd drink it with fowl or fish.

LOCATION: Château de Beaucastel has 7 hectares of white varieties. 
TERROIR: Molasse seabed of the Miocene period covered by diluvial alpine deposits (rolled pebbles).
AGEING: Handpicked in small cases, sorting of the grapes, pneumatic pressing, settling of the juice, fermentation (30% in oak barrels, 70% in tanks) for 8 months. Bottling after 8 months.
VARIETALS: Roussanne 80%, Grenache blanc 15%, Picardan, Clairette, Bourboulenc 5%

14. Chateau Carbonnieux Blanc 2023 $140 (bargain)

A perfect bottle for me. I think as highly of it as I do Beaucastel Chateauneuf du Pape Blanc (though they are different in structure, and require different pairings). The Carbonnieaux is much more in my price range, for what it's worth, especially when considering I want two bottles because it's so, so good. It's clean, crisp, and refreshing. Unmistakably lemon from the nose to the finish. 

Blend: Sauvignon, Sémillon
Aging: 10 months in barriques and large vats
Serving temperature:12°C
Food pairing: Raw or cooked fish, crustaceans, shellfish, foie gras, all poultry or white meat, veal sweetbreads, spiced dishes (curry, tagine, etc.), cheeses, fruit desserts, sorbet.

15. Arnot Roberts Rose 2023 $95 (bargain).

It's a blend of Portuguese grapes, but instead of making port, it's this light, blush, red berry bursting patio pounder. I love it.

Varietal Blend: Predominantly Touriga Nacional (around 71%), with Trincadeira, Grenache, and Tinta Cao. 
Flavor Profile: Watermelon, strawberry, white peach, citrus, and sage, with a saline minerality. 
Style: Light, bright, and fresh with subtle texture, not a heavy or bold rosé. 
Alcohol: Low at 11.5% ABV. 
Source: Grapes come from high-elevation vineyards in California, including the San Antonio Valley and Sierra Foothills. 
Best For: Drinking on its own, picnics, and pairing with light snacks, cheese, and charcuterie. 

16. Domaine Tempier Bandol Rose, 2023 $175 (Hidden gem)

This is the flagship rose of Bandol. Its so fresh and light in structure with fresh strawberry and red cherry notes. It's ready to drink right away, and it is so well made it can age 10 years. When aged, its fruit changes in character to candied, and its nose develops a rose petal aroma. The perfect summer wine to have with cheese, charcuterie, all the seafood, or just by itself.

Composition Mourvèdre (~ 50%) with Grenache and Cinsault
Average age of the vines: 20 years

Vinification: Pellicular maceration or direct pressing, then the juice is allowed to settle at a low temperature. Fermentation in stainless steel or concrete vats.

Aging 6 – 8 months before being bottled.
Conservation : 1 – 5 years.

17. Ramonet Bourgogne Blanc 2023 $195 (hidden gem)

This is all I  ever need. I love a legendary bottle like Le Montrachet, but I'd rather spend $200 dollars on a great producer's Bourgogne Blanc than $400 on one of their premier crus. Ramonet is a great producer. This wine is so well made, rich, creamy flavors, ripe fruit, long finish.

Both Chardonnay and Pinot Noir are matured for 12 to 15 months to polish depth and nuance, with the percentage of new oak reflecting the appellation level. Villages appellations see 5%

18. Laroche Beauroy Chablis 2023 $185 (Hidden Gem)

Beauroy is a dramatic vineyard. It makes a big horseshoe that arches up above the meeting of two rivers. It faces south, and action of the rivers is accompanied by wind that dries the vineyard.

Winemaker's notes: Finesse, fruitiness, and minerality are its major assets, star anise and spices. A subtly saline, elegant finish.
Aging potential: 8-10years
100% Chardonnay 
Pairing: Thai cuisine, pork tenderloin, creamy sauces

19. Robert Chevillon Les Vaucrains 1er Cru 2018, $395 (premium)

This is one of Nuit St Goerge's most illustrious 1er Crus, and one of the most singular terriers in all of France. It is positioned at the top of a hill where erosion has shed all types of clay leaving behind almost nothing but hard stone. This makes it nearly impossible for the vines to stay hydrated, and gives the winemakers tiny flavor drenched grapes from which to vinify their pinot noir.

Tasting Notes: Rich and muscular, this wine features complex layers of cassis, wild blueberries, dark chocolate, rose petals, and smoked earth.
Structure: It is known as one of the most powerful wines in the Chevillon cellar, requiring significant patience to soften its robust tannins.
Aging Potential: Critics suggest a long aging window, typically reaching optimal maturity between 2030 and 2080.

20. Domaine Romanee Canti La Tache Grand Cru Monopole 2017 $5000 (Legendary)

People ask me all the time, why does it cost so much? With DRC's La Tache it is not just the excellence of the vineyard and the winemakers, it is also a matter of real estate. The deed of sale for La Tache has only been traded three times that we know of, and goes back to before Napoleon. It is one of the only properties in all of France for which the ownership can be traced to before the Revolution. 

Aroma Signature: A perfumed firework display of red cherry, dark wild berries, plum, violet, sandalwood, blood orange, and coniferous forest floor.Palate 
Structure: Medium-to-full bodied, satin-textured, and exceptionally deep. It balances striking mid-palate pliancy with fine-grained, firm tannins and a saline, loamy finish.
Aging Window: Experts cite a drinking window spanning from 2025 to 2070. While alluringly aromatic right now, it possesses a rigid core that will benefit heavily from 5 to 10 more years of cellaring.

21.Domaine Jean-Michel Gaunoux Meursault Perrières 2016 $330 (premium)

Perhaps the most coveted of all Meursault vineyards, Perrières is always rich and gorgeous. It's everything buttery Chardonnay wishes it was while retaining the acidity and balance that make it perfect for pairing.

Grape: Chardonnay
Style: White, buttery, complex, mineral-driven
Tasting Notes: Apple, pear, vanilla, butter, citrus, crushed stone, lemongrass
Food Pairing: Chicken, turkey, seafood, creamy pasta, soft cheeses
Production: Hand-harvested, gentle pressing, cool fermentation in steel, aged in French oak 

22. Domaine Rougeot Clos de Roses 2021 $250 (premium)

This is a monopole of Rougeot, and one of the great monopoles in Burgundy. It's low intervention wine,  a rarity for Burgundy.  It's nose is so profoundly rose water that it leads to double takes. The natural wine style Rougeot develops here allows for a red burgundy that is juicy with very light, silky tannins.

Grape: 100% Pinot Noir. 
Region: Pommard, Côte de Beaune, Burgundy, France. 
Vineyard: 'Clos des Roses' (also known as Rue au Porc), a walled plot near a stream. 
Viticulture: Organic and biodynamic farming. 
Vinification: Hand-harvested, whole-cluster fermentation with native yeasts, aged in oak barrels (often neutral), bottled unfined, unfiltered, with minimal or no added sulfur (Sans Soufre). 

23. Benanti Etna Bianco 2023 $75 (bargain)

100% caricante, it's a bit of a Sicilian white Burgundy, but more romantic. About as romantic as it gets-- wine produced on the ridge of an active volcano.

Region: Mount Etna, Sicily, Italy (Etna D.O.C.)
Grape Variety: 100% Carricante
Tasting Notes: Dry, medium-bodied, and zesty with aromas of green apple, citrus, and white flowers, balanced by a profound, saline/flinty minerality.
Aging: Vinified and matured on the fine lees in stainless steel vats to preserve its fresh, vibrant characteristics.
Pairings: Excellent with grilled calamari, white fish, fresh salads, or feta cheese.

24. Jardins de Babylon

This is my favorite after dinner drink. Made by Didier Dagenau, perhaps the world's finest ever Sancerre producer, his true love is dessert wine. He spent much of his career traveling France searching for the perfect wife to finish a meal. He found it in the Pyrenees Mountains, at the border with Spain, in the form of late-harvest Petit Menseng. It's a gorgeous wine-- rich and sweet, but gives the sense of being almost delicate, lifted by its vibrant acidity. 

Region: Jurançon, Southwest France 
Grape: Petit Manseng 
Style: Sweet (Moelleux) dessert wine, though a dry (Sec) version also exists 
Farming: Biodynamic 
Vinification: Spontaneous fermentation with native yeasts, aged for a minimum of 5 years in large oak vats (foudres) 
Flavor Profile: Lush, balanced, with notes of fruit, spice, honey, and minerality, balanced by racy acidity 
Legacy: A cult wine with a mythical reputation, continuing the vision of the late Didier Dagueneau 

25. The End of Nowhere ‘Space Boy’ Pinot Gris Yolo County, CA 2023 $68 (bargain)

This is how you plan to set the wine world on its ear? With $70, skin contact Pinot Gris from Yolo, CA? That's exactly right. This is a session wine with low abv. The vineyards are leafy islands in a network of tributaries connected by hand-made, wooden draw bridges. It's perfect!

Type: Skin-fermented Pinot Gris (Ramato style)
Region: Yolo County, California, USA (from Heringer Vineyard)
Winemaker: Chris Walsh
Appearance: Copper, russet, or pink, not typical white wine color
Flavor Profile: Dry, with notes of rhubarb, herbs, and fresh berry fruit
Body: Full-bodied, meant to be drunk like a light red wine
Production: Fermented on skins, aged in neutral French oak, unfined, unfiltered, low/no sulfites added
Food Pairing: Salads, green vegetables, or as a light red 
